Add analytics integration (#17104)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/analytics.markdown

---
title: Analytics
description: Share system analytics and diagnostics
ha_category:
  - Other
ha_release: 2021.4 
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_codeowners:
  - '@home-assistant/core'
ha_domain: analytics
---

The Analytics integration will collect information about the running Home Assistant instance and its environment. The information sent depends on what you enable, by default nothing is enabled. The different sections can be controlled in the UI under **{% my general title="Configuration >> General" %}**.

**{% my general badge %}**

When enabled the integration will send data 15 minutes after each start, and every 24h after startup. When the data is sent the full payload will be printed to your log.

The collected data is available to the public at https://analytics.home-assistant.io

## Configuration

> This integration is by default enabled, unless you've disabled or removed the [`default_config:`](/integrations/default_config/) line from your configuration. If that is the case, the following example shows you how to enable this integration manually:

Reviewer: `This integration is by default enabled` could be confusing after the introduction paragraph says `The information sent depends on what you enable, by default nothing is enabled.` - May want to clarify that the integration is enabled by default but will not transmit anything by default.

Author: adjusted both sections

```yaml
analytics:
```

## Basic analytics

This includes:

- The UUID of your system
- The version of your system
- The installation type of your system

> If your system include the Supervisor this will also contain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your system includes the Supervisor this will also contain:
```

- The state of the auto update toggle of all installed add-ons

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "huuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  },
  "integrations": ["awesome_integration"],
    "addons": [
        {
            "slug": "awesome_addon",
            "protected": true,
            "version": "1.0.0",
            "auto_update": false
        }
    ]
}
```

{% enddetails %}

## Statistics

You need to enable [basic analytics](#basic-analytics) to be able to enable this.

This includes:

- Number of integrations
- Number of users
- Number of entities
- Number of automations

If your system include the Supervisor this will also contain:

- Number of installed add-ons

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "huuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  },
  "state_count": 1,
  "automation_count": 2,
  "integration_count": 3,
  "addon_count": 4,
  "user_count": 5
}
```

{% enddetails %}

## Diagnostics

> This is not sent to the same [Receiver](#receiver) as the rest of the information enabled with this integration. Crash reports are sent to [Sentry](https://sentry.io/welcome/), this data will not be made public and will only be available to a few core developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not sent to the same [Receiver](#receiver) as the rest of the information enabled with this integration. Crash reports are sent to [Sentry](https://sentry.io/welcome/). This data will not be made public and will only be available to a few core developers.
```

> For now, this is only being done for events inside the Supervisor if your system have that. If this changes to include other parts of the ecosystem that will be mentioned in the releasenotes for the version that changes that and the documentation here will be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now, this is only being done for events inside the Supervisor if your system has that. If this changes to include other parts of the ecosystem it will be mentioned in the release notes and the documentation here will be updated.
```

## Receiver

> The receiver that the payloads are sent to are running as a [CloudFlare Worker](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) and the code for that can be inspected in the [home-assistant/analytics repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The receiver that the payloads are sent to is running as a [CloudFlare Worker](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) and the code for that can be inspected in the [home-assistant/analytics repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics)
```

> The receiver that the payloads are sent to is running as a [CloudFlare Worker](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) and the code for that can be inspected in the [home-assistant/analytics repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics)

Author: ```suggestion
The receiver that the payloads are sent to is running as a [CloudFlare Worker](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) and the code for that can be inspected in the [home-assistant/analytics repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics.home-assistant.io)
```

> The receiver that the payloads are sent to is running as a [CloudFlare Worker](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) and the code for that can be inspected in the [home-assistant/analytics repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics.home-assistant.io)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The receiver that the payloads are sent to is running as a [CloudFlare Worker](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) and the code for that can be inspected in the [home-assistant/analytics repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics.home-assistant.io).
```

---
title: Analytics
description: Share system analytics and diagnostics
ha_category:
  - Other
ha_release: 2021.4 
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_codeowners:
  - '@home-assistant/core'
ha_domain: analytics
---

The Analytics integration will collect information about the running Home Assistant instance and its environment. The information sent depends on what sections you enable in the integration, by default nothing is enabled. The different sections can be controlled in the UI under **{% my general title="Configuration >> General" %}**.

**{% my general badge %}**

> When enabled the integration will send data 15 minutes after each start, and every 24h after startup. When the data is sent the full payload will be printed to your log.
> 
> The collected data is available to the public at https://analytics.home-assistant.io

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When enabled the integration will send data 15 minutes after each start, and every 24h after startup. When the data is sent the full payload will be printed to your log.

The collected data is available to the public at <https://analytics.home-assistant.io>
```

## Configuration

> This integration is by default enabled, unless you've disabled or removed the [`default_config:`](/integrations/default_config/) line from your configuration. If that is the case, the following example shows you how to enable this integration manually, just enabling the integration will nok make it sent analytics:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration is by default enabled, unless you've disabled or removed the [`default_config:`](/integrations/default_config/) line from your configuration. If that is the case, the following example shows you how to enable this integration manually, just enabling the integration will **not** make it sent analytics:
```

- Number of installed add-ons

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "huuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  },
  "state_count": 1,
  "automation_count": 2,
  "integration_count": 3,
  "addon_count": 4,
  "user_count": 5
}
```

{% enddetails %}

## Diagnostics

This is not sent to the same [Receiver](#receiver) as the rest of the information enabled with this integration. Crash reports are sent to [Sentry](https://sentry.io/welcome/). This data will not be made public and will only be available to a few core developers.

For now, this is only being done for events inside the Supervisor if your system has that. If this changes to include other parts of the ecosystem it will be mentioned in the release notes and the documentation here will be updated.

## Receiver

The receiver that the payloads are sent to is running as a [CloudFlare Worker](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) and the code for that can be inspected in the [home-assistant/analytics repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics.home-assistant.io).

## Storage and usage

> When your installation send a payload, that payload includes a unique identifier, this identifier is used to make sure that future payload updates, only changes information from your installation.
> The data is stored in CloudFlare's KV (Key-Value) store for the [Receiver](#receiver), and will be stored for a maximum of 60 days since last update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When your installation sends a payload, that payload includes a unique identifier, this identifier is used to make sure that future payload updates, only change information from your installation.
The data is stored in CloudFlare's KV (Key-Value) store for the [Receiver](#receiver), and will be stored for a maximum of 60 days since the last update.
```

This is an example of how the information is stored:

> key | value
> --|--
> `huuid:12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3` | `{"version": "2021.4.0", "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS"}`

Reviewer 2: The table has a hard time displaying this nicely. Maybe just do this?

```suggestion
Key: `huuid:12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3` 
Value: `{"version": "2021.4.0", "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS"}`
```

Reviewer 2: Even better solution you put out 👍

> Like all other websites you visit the IP address and client information that sent the request will be visible to the remote server, this however is not stored by us (you are more than welcome to inspect [the code that receives the data](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics.home-assistant.io)), CloudFlare will keep a log of all interactions, [see their privacy policy for more details about that](https://www.cloudflare.com/privacypolicy/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like all other websites you visit, the IP address and client information that sent the request will be visible to the remote server, this, however, is not stored by us (you are more than welcome to inspect [the code that receives the data](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics.home-assistant.io)), CloudFlare will keep a log of all interactions, [see their privacy policy for more details about that](https://www.cloudflare.com/privacypolicy/)
```

> The data will be used to display the information on https://analytics.home-assistant.io and to analyze how users are using Home Assistant. This allows for workload prioritizing to focus resources on improving the areas that are most important to our users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data will be used to display the information on <https://analytics.home-assistant.io> and to analyze how users are using Home Assistant. This allows for workload prioritizing to focus resources on improving the areas that are most important to our users.
```
